README.md, before:

# Filament Field Group

[![Latest Version on Packagist](https://img.shields.io/packagist/v/solution-forest/filament-field-group.svg?style=flat-square)](https://packagist.org/packages/solution-forest/filament-field-group)
[![GitHub Tests Action Status](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/solutionforest/filament-field-group/run-tests.yml?branch=main&label=tests&style=flat-square)](https://github.com/solutionforest/filament-field-group/actions?query=workflow%3Arun-tests+branch%3Amain)
[![GitHub Code Style Action Status](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/solutionforest/filament-field-group/fix-php-code-styling.yml?branch=main&label=code%20style&style=flat-square)](https://github.com/solutionforest/filament-field-group/actions?query=workflow%3A"Fix+PHP+code+styling"+branch%3Amain)
[![Total Downloads](https://img.shields.io/packagist/dt/solution-forest/filament-field-group.svg?style=flat-square)](https://packagist.org/packages/solution-forest/filament-field-group)


Filament Field Group is a powerful Laravel package that enhances Filament's form building capabilities. It allows you to easily group and organize form fields, improving the structure and readability of your forms. With this package, you can create collapsible sections, tabs, or custom layouts for your form fields, making complex forms more manageable and user-friendly.


## Installation

1. You can install the package via composer:
    ```bash
    composer require solution-forest/filament-field-group
    ```
2. Register the plugin in your Panel provider
   ```php
    use SolutionForest\FilamentFieldGroup\FilamentFieldGroupPlugin;

    class AdminPanelProvider extends PanelProvider
    {
        public function panel(Panel $panel): Panel
        {
            return $panel
                ->plugin(FilamentFieldGroupPlugin::make());
        }
    }
   ```
3. Then execute the following commands:
    ```bash
    php artisan filament-field-group:install
    ```

## Publish Config, View, Translation and Migration
You can publish and run the migrations with:

```bash
php artisan vendor:publish --tag="filament-field-group-migrations"
php artisan migrate
```

You can publish the config file with:

```bash
php artisan vendor:publish --tag="filament-field-group-config"
```

Optionally, you can publish the views using

```bash
php artisan vendor:publish --tag="filament-field-group-views"
```

This is the contents of the published config file:

```php
return [
    'enabled' => false,
    'models' => [
        'field' => \SolutionForest\FilamentFieldGroup\Models\Field::class,
        'field_group' => SolutionForest\FilamentFieldGroup\Models\FieldGroup::class,
    ],
    'table_names' => [
        'fields' => 'advanced_fields',
        'field_groups' => 'advanced_field_groups',
    ],
];
```

## Usage

1. Add `FilamentFieldGroupPlugin` to you panel.
2. Enable the Field Group resource by setting `enabled` to `true` in the config file:
```php

// config/filament-field-group.php
return [
    'enabled' => true,
    // ... other config options
];
```
Or enable the plugin on `FilamentFieldGroupPlugin`
```php
use SolutionForest\FilamentFieldGroup\FilamentFieldGroupPlugin;
 
$panel
    ->plugin(FilamentFieldGroupPlugin::make()->enablePlugin());
```
![Filament Field Group](./docs-assets/images/initial-resource.png)

3. Create field groups and fields, for example:

   - Navigate to the Field Group resource in your Filament admin panel.
   - Create a new field group (e.g., "User Basic Info").
   - Add fields to the group (e.g., name, email, etc.).
![Create Field Group and Field](./docs-assets/images/add-field-1.png)
![Create Field Group and Field](./docs-assets/images/add-field-2.png)
![Create Field Group and Field](./docs-assets/images/add-field-3.png)

4. Apply field groups to your form schema:
```php

use SolutionForest\FilamentFieldGroup\Facades\FilamentFieldGroup;

public static function form(Form $form): Form
{
    return $form
        ->columns(1)
        ->schema([
            FilamentFieldGroup::findFieldGroup('user_basic'),
            FilamentFieldGroup::findFieldGroup('user_detail'),
        ]);
}
```
![Apply Field Group](./docs-assets/images/apply-field-group.png)
   
## Available Components

Currently, this package provides the following components:

- Text
- TextArea
- Email
- Password
- Number
- Url
- Select

More components can be added in the future. Feel free to submit a pull request if you have ideas for additional components!


## Advanced Usage
### Custom Resources
You can call `resources` on `FilamentFieldGroupPlugin` to add/replace original resource:
```php
use SolutionForest\FilamentFieldGroup\FilamentFieldGroupPlugin;
 
$panel
    ->plugin(FilamentFieldGroupPlugin::make()
        ->resources([
            // your resource
        ], override: true)
    );
```

### Custom Field Types
You can call `fieldTypeConfigs` on `FilamentFieldGroupPlugin` to add/replace original field type config(s):
```php
use SolutionForest\FilamentFieldGroup\FilamentFieldGroupPlugin;
 
$panel
    ->plugin(FilamentFieldGroupPlugin::make()
        ->fieldTypeConfigs([
            // your field type config
        ], override: true)
    );
```

## Testing

```bash
composer test
```

## Changelog

Please see [CHANGELOG](CHANGELOG.md) for more information on what has changed recently.

## Contributing

Please see [CONTRIBUTING](.github/CONTRIBUTING.md) for details.

We welcome contributions to enhance this package. More components can potentially be added, so feel free to submit a pull request with your ideas or improvements.

## Security Vulnerabilities

Please review [our security policy](../../security/policy) on how to report security vulnerabilities.

## Credits

- [alan](https://github.com/solutionforest)
- [All Contributors](../../contributors)

## License

The MIT License (MIT). Please see [License File](LICENSE.md) for more information.

Commit message:

update README.ms for custom model

README.md, after:

# Filament Field Group

[![Latest Version on Packagist](https://img.shields.io/packagist/v/solution-forest/filament-field-group.svg?style=flat-square)](https://packagist.org/packages/solution-forest/filament-field-group)
[![GitHub Tests Action Status](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/solutionforest/filament-field-group/run-tests.yml?branch=main&label=tests&style=flat-square)](https://github.com/solutionforest/filament-field-group/actions?query=workflow%3Arun-tests+branch%3Amain)
[![GitHub Code Style Action Status](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/solutionforest/filament-field-group/fix-php-code-styling.yml?branch=main&label=code%20style&style=flat-square)](https://github.com/solutionforest/filament-field-group/actions?query=workflow%3A"Fix+PHP+code+styling"+branch%3Amain)
[![Total Downloads](https://img.shields.io/packagist/dt/solution-forest/filament-field-group.svg?style=flat-square)](https://packagist.org/packages/solution-forest/filament-field-group)


Filament Field Group is a powerful Laravel package that enhances Filament's form building capabilities. It allows you to easily group and organize form fields, improving the structure and readability of your forms. With this package, you can create collapsible sections, tabs, or custom layouts for your form fields, making complex forms more manageable and user-friendly.


## Installation

1. You can install the package via composer:
    ```bash
    composer require solution-forest/filament-field-group
    ```
2. Register the plugin in your Panel provider
   ```php
    use SolutionForest\FilamentFieldGroup\FilamentFieldGroupPlugin;

    class AdminPanelProvider extends PanelProvider
    {
        public function panel(Panel $panel): Panel
        {
            return $panel
                ->plugin(FilamentFieldGroupPlugin::make());
        }
    }
   ```
3. Then execute the following commands:
    ```bash
    php artisan filament-field-group:install
    ```

## Publish Config, View, Translation and Migration
You can publish and run the migrations with:

```bash
php artisan vendor:publish --tag="filament-field-group-migrations"
php artisan migrate
```

You can publish the config file with:

```bash
php artisan vendor:publish --tag="filament-field-group-config"
```

Optionally, you can publish the views using

```bash
php artisan vendor:publish --tag="filament-field-group-views"
```

This is the contents of the published config file:

```php
return [
    'enabled' => false,
    'table_names' => [
        'fields' => 'advanced_fields',
        'field_groups' => 'advanced_field_groups',
    ],
];

```

## Usage

1. Add `FilamentFieldGroupPlugin` to you panel.
2. Enable the Field Group resource by setting `enabled` to `true` in the config file:
```php

// config/filament-field-group.php
return [
    'enabled' => true,
    // ... other config options
];
```
Or enable the plugin on `FilamentFieldGroupPlugin`
```php
use SolutionForest\FilamentFieldGroup\FilamentFieldGroupPlugin;
 
$panel
    ->plugin(FilamentFieldGroupPlugin::make()->enablePlugin());
```
![Filament Field Group](./docs-assets/images/initial-resource.png)

3. Create field groups and fields, for example:

   - Navigate to the Field Group resource in your Filament admin panel.
   - Create a new field group (e.g., "User Basic Info").
   - Add fields to the group (e.g., name, email, etc.).
![Create Field Group and Field](./docs-assets/images/add-field-1.png)
![Create Field Group and Field](./docs-assets/images/add-field-2.png)
![Create Field Group and Field](./docs-assets/images/add-field-3.png)

4. Apply field groups to your form schema:
```php

use SolutionForest\FilamentFieldGroup\Facades\FilamentFieldGroup;

public static function form(Form $form): Form
{
    return $form
        ->columns(1)
        ->schema([
            FilamentFieldGroup::findFieldGroup('user_basic'),
            FilamentFieldGroup::findFieldGroup('user_detail'),
        ]);
}
```
![Apply Field Group](./docs-assets/images/apply-field-group.png)
   
## Available Components

Currently, this package provides the following components:

- Text
- TextArea
- Email
- Password
- Number
- Url
- Select

More components can be added in the future. Feel free to submit a pull request if you have ideas for additional components!


## Advanced Usage
### Custom Resources
You can call `resources` on `FilamentFieldGroupPlugin` to add/replace original resource:
```php
use SolutionForest\FilamentFieldGroup\FilamentFieldGroupPlugin;
 
$panel
    ->plugin(FilamentFieldGroupPlugin::make()
        ->resources([
            // your resource
        ], override: true)
    );
```

### Custom Field Types
You can call `fieldTypeConfigs` on `FilamentFieldGroupPlugin` to add/replace original field type config(s):
```php
use SolutionForest\FilamentFieldGroup\FilamentFieldGroupPlugin;
 
$panel
    ->plugin(FilamentFieldGroupPlugin::make()
        ->fieldTypeConfigs([
            // your field type config
        ], override: true)
    );
```

### Custom Models

This section allows you to customize the model used for field groups in the Filament Field Group package. By replacing the default `FieldGroup` model with your own implementation, you can extend or modify its behavior to suit your application's needs. 

To do this, use the `replace` method from the `ModelManifest` facade, specifying the original model and your custom model. Here's an example:

```php
\SolutionForest\FilamentFieldGroup\Facades\ModelManifest::replace(
    \SolutionForest\FilamentFieldGroup\Models\Contracts\FieldGroup::class,
    Your\Models\FieldGroup::class
);
```

## Testing

```bash
composer test
```

## Changelog

Please see [CHANGELOG](CHANGELOG.md) for more information on what has changed recently.

## Contributing

Please see [CONTRIBUTING](.github/CONTRIBUTING.md) for details.

We welcome contributions to enhance this package. More components can potentially be added, so feel free to submit a pull request with your ideas or improvements.

## Security Vulnerabilities

Please review [our security policy](../../security/policy) on how to report security vulnerabilities.

## Credits

- [alan](https://github.com/solutionforest)
- [All Contributors](../../contributors)

## License

The MIT License (MIT). Please see [License File](LICENSE.md) for more information.
